Great. So now let's implement this algorithm in code.
First step, let's install some libraries,
and we'll also import them.
Okay, so while that's running,
I just want to point out that we're simulating
some simple data that is similar to the previous exercises where feature
zero and feature one formed the AND operator in feature
two does not contribute to the prediction on the label, because it's always zero.
So that's this right here.
Or, if you wanted to, you could also just take a look at here's the feature matrix,
with the three features and y contains the labels.
Now, let's train a decision tree.
What's cool is we're going to only train one decision tree,
and we're going to reuse it.
So we're going to train it on all the features.
Again, here's the visual that we've seen from previous exercises.
Here's our simple tree.
Now, let's review some tree attributes that we're going to be using.
So this is from sklearn.tree.tree, which is here.
So underscore tree, and so some of
the texts here that you see here is taken from the source code.
So the binary tree is represented as a number of parallel arrays.
So the i-th element of each array holds information about node i,
and node zero is the tree's root.
So here, we can grab that tree object and then we can work with it.
So for instance there's the left and right child nodes.
You may recall this from before.
So for the root node at index zero,
it's left child is called node one and its right child is called node two.
So similarly, we have an array of features.
So this is saying that at node zero,
because its index zero feature one is used,
and then at node zero, one, two,
at node two, features zero is used for splitting.
We also have thresholds that are used for splitting.
The thresholds divide the data points using the chosen features.
Less than equal to 0.5 and the data goes to the left child,
greater than 0.5, and the data goes to the right child.
So you can see here is the thresholds used or these two features.
So this was at node zero and this is at node zero, one, two.
There is also the value list.
Value is the average prediction for each node.
Node zero predicts 0.25 on average,
because at that point,
there's no splitting done yet.
So it's just a simple average of all the labels.
Node two produce 0.5 on average.
We can notice zero,
one, two, three, four.
The last node on the right predicts one.
So that's the case when both features
zero and one are the value of one. In other words, true.
Node samples, so we can use either n_node_samples or weighted_node_samples,
and these are telling us how many training samples are in each node,
as they trickled down from the top to the bottom.
We can actually use either of these,
because we'll use these to calculate proportions of
samples that go from a parent node to its left and right child nodes.
So we'll just go ahead and use a weighted_n_node_samples.
Okay. Continue on to the next video that introduces a short quiz.